this is a block diagram that is a
subunit signed basica interconnection of
a data path this first block it is
input/output port here inputting the
data that one will be sent to a shift
resistor similarly the last Trump's last
shift resistor it can be input once
again to an input/output port okay so
Direction control can be done by using
the control signals second one is 4-bit
register here you are going to contains
a memory element for bit memory element
that is a resistor which one holds the
data temporarily okay the content will
be shifted to 4-bit ALU so 4-bit
resistors may be a number of resistors
that will be sent to a ALU
where ALU performs a arithmetic
operation as well as a logical operation
based on control signal applied to Lu
whatever result that one will be shifted
to a next block that is
end-around shifter that one will be used
to shift to a memory unit are once again
to output device also so this is simple
subunits angles basic interconnection
the data path okay next one here you are
going to learn different per circuit
that is one bus architecture two bus
architecture three bus architecture then
you are going to decide which one will
be best suited for the design okay
so here in this one bus architecture
only one one bus is used to communicate
different sub blocks the first of read
from the register
- ALU operandi stored there then second
operand once again from the register to
ALU in a loop lock these two operands
are added uniforms addition of the
content of registers operand addition
then produce the result stored in ALU
also and it may be passed to shift or
else I stored in register once again the
result will be stored into register once
again fine so the sequence is I hope all
of you understood first operand should
be sent from the register to ALU again
ALU supposed to wait for one more
operate once it receives the second
operand then performs the addition our
arithmetic operations are logical
operations then the result will be
stored then that result will be sent to
shifter shifter is used to shift the
content back to a resistor ship the
content back to our registers okay so
this one takes up more time to perform
operation
rotation or you can say automatically
logic operation so if one bus
architecture requires more time
next we'll go with the second sorry
two bus architecture here you are going
to use two bus that is bus a and bus be
right by saying must be again three
blocks that is registers ALU shifter
here the register two operands a and B
are sent from the register it is shown
in this one a and B sent from the
register to ALU then le performs
operation the result s is stored in a
loom as well as that result is passed to
shifter okay then that result will be
shifted by using this shifter to a once
again a register right so when you
observe this one compared to a one bus
architecture
two bus architecture computes a little
bit faster than one bus architecture
why because two operates simultaneously
input to ALU so no need to wait for the
another operand it gets a previous one
hence the operation is much faster
compared to one bus architecture okay
let us we'll go through one more
architecture that is three bus
architecture here three versus
this one is one the second verse and
this one is third of us here the
resistors - operand a and we are sent
from the registers operated upon in this
a and B fine and result will be stored
and shifted result to a shifter then
shifter in turn content will be shifted
to register compared to to bus
architecture this is faster
okay here computation is faster this is
what three bus architecture and here two
operand a and B are sent from the
registers operated upon and shifted the
result has turned to another register
all in this is very important all in
same block all in same clock okay now
this is tentative floor plan for the
4-bit data path here area required for
input/output device 4-bit register ALU
forward shifter and verse 1 and was true
ok so this is a tentative floor plan for
the 4-bit data path here a vertical line
indicates control signals horizontal
line indicates data I power VDD ok
it may be global as well as local
distribution right so this is what
tentative flow fine more thing or bid
data path now while designing a
subsystem you would need to consider the
following are you need to follow the
points listed below as you learned
already in module 2 there is same thing
repeated here first thing is metal can
cross the poly silicon or diffusion
metal can cross the polysilicon or
depletion poly crossing diffusion for
the transistor whenever a poly crossing
the diffusion formation of transistor
takes place as you learned in module 2
whenever line with solid line touches on
the same level and interconnection is
found if you take a diffusion or
diffusion there is a formation of
interconnection polysilicon over nopales
in the confirmation of interaction
interconnection metal over a metal there
is interconnection okay so keep in mind
same level an interconnection is formed
one more important point simple contact
can be used to join diffusion or a poly
to metal simple contact as you learned
already buried contact butting contacts
can be used to join divisional poly
where it contact ID but in contact can
be used to join the diffusion in pole in
some process you are going to use metal
to metal to also you are going to use
metal one also you're using
here metal one that is first and second
metal layers are joined using wire I was
explaining you whenever you want to join
metal one and metal to you are going to
say as a wire rest of all you are going
to say as a contact cut okay
each layer has a particular electrical
property which must be taken into
account okay electrical property of a
different layer will be different if you
take a electro property for diffusion is
a different electrical property for
metal is a different electrical property
over polysilicon is different you have
to consider that one also in case of
CMOS layout okay PID n diffusion wires
must not join directly each other I was
explaining you diffusion P diffusion
never crosses the demarcation line in
case of C was design I was explaining
you diffusion never crosses the
demarcation so in that case you have to
use metal or a polysilicon to join can
depletion will be diffusion okay nor
they may cross either people or n well
poetry simply you studied in case of a
while drawing a stick diagram I'd layout
you study do the same thing here also
restate the same points okay so this all
point should be considered by designing
subsystem okay let us